Stardate 51367.2.
Captain's Log,
JANEWAY:
We've spent the last three days
on the Mari homeworld.
we've had the opportunity
It's been a while since
to make new friends,
and the crew seems to be making
the most of our stay.
( majestic theme playing )
Neelix.
Tom. You've been doing
a little shopping.
It's a present
for B'Elanna.
What is it?
Well, it's sort
of personal.
Say no more.
Of course.
I'm on my way
for a little romantic
rendezvous myself.
( sniffing )
Neelix...
are you wearing
cologne?
Oh.
Talchok musk.
Very enticing scent,
don't you think?
Well, uh, it
certainly is...
musky.
I'm going
to see Talli again.
Ooh, that was fast work.
Where're you taking her?
Well, actually, I haven't
gotten that far yet.
I'm going to visit her shop,
under the pretext of buying
some produce for the ship,
and then I thought I'd just
sort of segue smoothly
into some dinner
and dancing.
Ha, ha. Sounds like
a good strategy.
You really think so?
I mean, you used to be quite
the ladies' man.
"Used to be"?
Well, I mean, you're involved
now, so, of course,
you won't be availing yourself
of all the beautiful,
fascinating
and very open-minded Mari women.
Neelix, are you trying
to depress me?
I just...
I haven't been with anyone
since Kes,
and I'm feeling a little rusty.
I could use some advice.
The best advice I can give you
is to just be yourself.
Right.
Be myself.
second-best piece of advice.
Actually, that's the
What's the first?
Go a little easier on the musk.
( soft theme playing )
( sniffing )
( crowd chattering )
but that's my final offer.
I'm sorry, Mr. Guill,
I sense you'd be willing
Actually, Captain,
to raise your price
to 300 renns.
this resonator coil to upgrade
Lieutenant Torres needs
communications systems.
Voyager's
Telepaths.
Wait a minute.
JANEWAY:
be willing to...
I sense you'd
settle for 250.
( chuckles )
You must have read my mind.
Aah! Unh. Hey!
I'm sorry.
Are you hurt?
No, no, I'm fine.
I just wish people would
look where they're going.
doing business with you.
It's been a pleasure
Why don't you go get Neelix?
I'll finish up here.
All right.
This is some
of the loveliest fruit I've--
I've seen
in a long time.
Actually, it's been
waterplum seasons in years.
one of our worst
I don't think you'll
find them very sweet.
Mmm. Mmm.
Oh, how wonderfully tart.
( chuckling )
excellent preserves.
Mmm. They'll make
Neelix?
Hmm?
to tug on your whiskers?
Why do you want me
Excu-- Excuse me?
That is what you're thinking,
isn't it?
to tug on your whiskers?
That you'd like me
Well, as a m-matter of fact...
I'd love to.
to wait until I close?
Do you have time
I can rearrange my schedule.
Yes, I think
I guess you could say
I'm becoming obsolete.
In what sense?
There's virtually no crime
left in our society.
It took many years,
through our streets.
but just walk
Look around.
Violence no longer exists.
Impressive.
I'm one of the last officers
still working
for the Constabulary.
And no doubt
one of the best.
I'm curious to know more
about your
crime-prevention methods.
Under one condition:
Learn about your methods.
I want to see Voyager.
my daily security rounds.
I'm about to perform
Join me.
They are routine
but informative.
Wonderful.
site is this way.
The transport
You prefer speaking aloud.
Why is that?
I've grown accustomed
to it over the years.
telepaths in Starfleet.
There are very few
Whatever you prefer.
Neelix.
Ready to leave?
you go ahead.
Uh, no, uh,
examining the produce.
I haven't finished
( crashing )
MALE:
Help! Help!
Somebody help me,
please!
Stop him!
( crashing and grunting )
Help me!
( suspenseful theme playing )
This will teach you
to watch
going, you idiot!
where you're
You idiot!
( groaning )
Somebody get a doctor!
Why? Why were you
beating that man?
I don't know.
( majestic theme playing )
( suspenseful theme playing )
It's a puzzling concept.
Your "brig."
away as punishment.
Shutting someone
rehabilitates the prisoner?
Do you find that it
The brig is primarily used
as a means of ensuring
the safety of others.
In what sense?
For example,
if we find ourselves
with a hostile alien
in our custody,
we may need
to confine the individual
until we can locate
the proper authorities.
I see.
And on rare occasions,
we have been forced
to incarcerate a crew member
who has committed
a serious infraction.
I'm surprised that
one of your people
could be capable of doing
something serious enough
to warrant imprisonment.
It's extremely rare.
In any case,
the brig has been occupied
for less than one percent
of our journey.
Forgive me, Tuvok,
but it seems...
barbaric.
If all species were
as enlightened
as yours and mine,
there would be no need
for prisons.
Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
KIM ( on communicator ):
Go ahead, Ensign.
been recalled to the surface.
Chief Examiner Nimira's
There's been some sort of attack
in the marketplace.
( suspenseful theme playing )
so much blood before.
I've never seen
It's all right.
I heard about someone
getting beaten once
It's all over now.
when I was a little girl.
I had nightmares
for weeks.
It's okay.
It's all right.
He was confused.
He said he didn't realize
what he'd done.
why nobody tried to help him.
I don't understand
People were shocked.
almost unheard of here.
Violence is
But when it does occur,
to investigate thoroughly.
we like
Can we help?
Yes. I would like
you, Mr. Neelix,
and, uh, Lieutenant Torres
to answer some questions.
Well, you have
our complete cooperation.
are you suspicious
Chief Examiner,
of my colleagues
for some reason?
conducting an investigation.
No, Lieutenant. I'm simply
Follow me.
Please.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Please have a seat.
I will be monitoring
your thoughts telepathically
during the interview.
This transcription device
engramatic activity,
will log your
your statement later.
so I can review
Let me get this straight.
Not only are you going
to read my mind,
to record my thoughts.
you're going
Yes.
to keep a secret from you, hmm?
I guess it'd be pretty tough
( exhales )
How long had you been
in the marketplace
when the attack occurred?
maybe a little longer.
One hour--
And exactly where
were you standing?
Directly across the square.
have a clear view of the attack?
From where you were, did you
Uh, not at first.
We just heard yelling.
Then, as we got closer,
we saw
what was happening.
What exactly brought you
in the first place?
to the market
Captain Janeway and I
had an appointment
with Mr. Guill.
For what purpose?
We'd met him the day before.
a spare resonator coil for us.
He said he could get
I see. And the two men involved
in the altercation.
Had you seen either of them
before?
I'd never seen the victim...
but the attacker...
I think he was the same man
who bumped into B'Elanna.
Bumped into her? Are you
certain?
Yes. They collided accidentally.
When exactly did
this happen?
Just as we'd settled
on the price.
in quite a hurry.
He seemed to be
were thinking at the time?
Do you recall what you
What I was thinking?
What does it matter?
Please, try to remember.
It may be important.
I didn't think about it much,
and no one was hurt,
and I was busy
trying to sort out the coins.
to handling currency.
I'm not used
What was I thinking? Ha.
I was thinking how I could bake
a delicious pie
with those waterplums.
Are you sure that's all,
Mr. Neelix?
NIMIRA:
Yes, of course.
NEELIX:
I  be thinking about?
What else would
a little annoyed.
I suppose I was
Can you be more specific?
NIMIRA:
All right.
I guess I was thinking
my foot hurt.
I mean, the idiot stepped
right on it.
Of course not.
Did you call him an idiot?
But you thought it?
I guess so.
Did you also think
about retaliating?
It was an accident.
But you said he hurt you.
It didn't occur to you
to hurt him back?
I'd never do that.
But you thought about it.
How am I supposed to remember?
Yes or no, did you think about
hurting him?
Yes or no?
Well, maybe for a split second.
Aah! Hey!
( grunting )
have been watching
I mean, he should
B'ELANNA:
where he was going,
that he didn't do it on purpose
but I realized
so I shook it off and I left.
Why?
What does it matter
what I was thinking?
Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres,
you are under arrest.
On what charge?
resulting in grave bodily harm.
Aggravated violent thought
Are you saying it's a crime
to think about violence?
Yes.
That's ridiculous.
quite necessary.
I assure you, it's
We were once a society
plagued by violence.
When we prohibited
hostile thought,
crime began to drop
immediately.
Over the past three generations,
it's all but disappeared.
So you believe
that it's all right
to tell people what they
can and cannot think?
It's an irrefutable fact
that violent thoughts
from others
can lead to violent actions.
Even if B'Elanna had
a violent thought,
attacked that man.
it was Frane who
Which he only did because he
telepathically
received that thought
from B'Elanna.
His mind was contaminated
by the image,
and it resulted in
a loss of control.
He may have committed
the physical act,
but it was instigated by you.
Where we come from,
people are responsible
for their own actions.
And here,
for their own thoughts.
how that's necessary for a race
I'm sure you can understand
of telepaths.
Captain!
Yes, I can.
that your people
I'll accept
the thoughts of others,
can be influenced by
of people in that square.
but there were dozens
How can you be certain
it came from B'Elanna?
The Mari no longer have
violent thoughts.
It's unlikely
any of them
could have been
responsible.
against B'Elanna is clear.
Besides, the evidence
committing a hostile act.
She thought about
I'd like to review
that evidence myself,
if you don't mind.
Certainly.
( device beeping )
you'll be disappointed.
But I'm afraid
What happens to B'Elanna now?
We have an enlightened
penal system here.
people away to punish them.
Unlike some, we don't lock
You'll be released.
Once you've undergone
the engramatic purge.
The what?
It's a medical procedure that
will identify and remove
the offending images
from your mind.
Captain!
Once identified, the images can
be removed
from Frane's mind as well.
Memory extraction.
That's a dangerous
procedure.
of neurological damage,
There is a risk
for us to treat Frane.
but it's necessary
( beeps )
Will you at least
delay the procedure
until we've had a chance
to review the evidence?
Will you?
to reconfigure our instruments.
It'll take us about a day
That's all the time
I can give you.
I'll need.
( suspenseful theme playing )
( computers beeping )
Captain, we've got to get
B'Elanna out of there.
You know the rules, Tom.
We can't pick and choose
which laws we'll respect
and which we won't.
Nobody can be expected
to control their thoughts.
Tell that to the Mari.
Are you just gonna
let them
put her through
this process?
I'm doing everything
I can to stop it.
Neelix is going to file
a diplomatic protest,
will be going over
and Tuvok and I
the witness statements.
Maybe we can poke
a few holes
Examiner's case.
in the Chief
And if you can't?
( sighs )
the doctor can figure out
Then let's hope
an engramatic purge.
how to reverse
( computer beeping )
All away personnel
have been notified
to return to the ship
as soon as possible.
So much for R&R.
Chakotay, we've
got to talk.
Have a seat.
Here?
I'm sure the Captain
wouldn't object.
What's on your mind?
While Tuvok
and the Captain
are reviewing
the evidence,
B'Elanna's sitting
in a Mari jail cell waiting
for some sort of lobotomy.
We can't let that happen.
What did you
have in mind?
Break her out.
confrontation with the Mari?
And risk an all-out
They're a bunch of pacifists.
They're no match for us.
You're probably right,
but before we start resorting
to extreme measures,
don't you think we should give
the Captain a chance
to find a legal solution?
By the time that happens,
it may be too late.
I'll tell you what.
Why don't you come up
with a rescue plan--
one that minimizes
the possibility
of violence,
and I'll review it.
to keep me busy, aren't you?
You're just trying
Can you blame me?
I'm serious about this,
Chakotay.
If your plan is sound,
So am I.
and the Captain doesn't have
any luck on her end,
I'll recommend we attempt
the rescue.
get right on it.
Thanks. I'll
Tom, I may have let you sit
in the Captain's chair,
she's still the boss.
but remember,
Then you don't accept
the Chief Examiner's
conclusion?
I'm not dismissing it,
to accept it blindly either.
but I'm not going
I've spent
a great deal of time
with Nimira over
the past few days.
She clearly is
a very skilled investigator.
I'm sure she is.
And this isn't
the first time
Lieutenant Torres'
violent proclivities
have created problems.
No argument there.
a hard time buying
But I have
that one fleeting thought
makes her responsible
for a vicious attack.
From what I've learned,
crime here is a result
of exposure
to violent thought,
much as it was on Vulcan
before my people learned
to control their emotions.
In my opinion,
the Mari should be
applauded
for their efforts.
Oh, I'm sure their intentions
are admirable, but, uh...
I'm not about to let them
scramble B'Elanna's brain
without a fight.
But we must prepare ourselves
for the probability
that she will turn out
to be culpable
for the crime.
Maybe so...
and then again...
maybe not.
Take a look at this.
I don't mean to accuse
your friend Nimira
thorough, Tuvok, but...
of being less than
just the least bit curious?
don't you find that
"New evidence"?
( computer beeping )
It concerns the attacker,
Mr. Frane.
According to your own
security records,
on four previous occasions
he was arrested
violent thoughts.
for harboring
You classified him
as an "habitual perpetrator
of hostile images."
True.
But those thoughts
were purged each time.
He spent years
in neurogenic restructuring.
The records also
say he was cured.
Still, it is possible
that Frane had
a relapse...
that he alone
is responsible
for his actions
at the marketplace.
Possible, but unlikely.
Our engramatic
scans of Frane
show that Lieutenant
Torres's thought
mind during the attack.
was prevalent in his
And you are certain
no other violent
thoughts were present?
I'm beginning to feel
being investigated.
like I'm the one
I am simply exploring
all logical options.
As a fellow
law enforcement officer,
you should
understand that.
I do.
And I'm willing to share
my findings with you.
trying to prove
But if you're
your crewmate's innocence,
you're too late.
The case is closed.
that this is easy for me?
Do you think
I don't want to harm B'Elanna,
but I don't have a choice.
That thought has
to be contained.
further violence, maybe even
Otherwise, we risk
a citywide panic.
You told me your people
spent centuries
learning how to control
their violent impulses.
I know we haven't achieved
your level of discipline,
but we're trying.
I thought you'd understand.
I am not judging
your culture.
In fact, I admire it.
I have enjoyed
your company in particular,
but I cannot abandon
my responsibility
to B'Elanna.
I must continue
my own investigation.
Go right ahead.
with the engramatic purge.
But I intend to proceed
( suspenseful theme playing )
Telepathy...
I don't like it.
Never have.
for negotiations,
It's bad
for relationships,
it's bad
been bad for B'Elanna.
and it's certainly
The fault was her own.
talking about?
What are you
with her thoughts.
She was careless
was violence.
The result
to being around telepaths.
B'Elanna's not used
That doesn't make
her guilty.
Then her crime
was ignorance.
A common affliction
among your crew.
What's that supposed to mean?
with alien species
You make contact
without sufficient understanding
of their nature.
As a result, Voyager's directive
to "seek out new civilizations"
often ends in conflict.
What you call "ignorance,"
we call "exploration."
And sometimes it means
taking a few risks.
But it's certainly better
than assimilating
everything in your path.
Your goal is to share knowledge.
means of attaining that goal.
Assimilation is the perfect
"Perfect."
Good morning,
Miss Tembit.
Your usual selection?
Yes, please.
Okay. Oh, I'm--
I'm so sorry.
Aah! Hey!
Idiot! Watch what
you're doing!
( grunts )
( Talli screams )
( suspenseful theme playing )
( crowd chattering )
She's dead.
I can't believe
she's dead.
I know this is difficult
for you, Mr. Neelix,
but try to recount for me
everything that happened.
Seven and I
were packing
to return to the ship.
We heard a scream.
I went running...
standing over Talli's body,
The old lady was just
holding the bloody
knife in her hand.
a chance to say good-bye.
I didn't even get
Did the old woman
say anything?
Not that I remember.
confused as anyone else.
She was as shocked and
is somehow connected
Do you think this
with the other attack?
I'm not certain,
but it strikes me
as more than coincidence
that two violent altercations
have occurred within two days,
in a city which purports
to have eliminated
virtually all crime.
MAN ( on communicator ):
Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
Tuvok here.
Chief Examiner Nimira
wants to see you.
She's requesting permission
to transport aboard.
Permission granted.
Have her escorted
to the briefing room.
Tuvok out.
We will continue later.
Commander.
She was a wonderful young woman.
for her death. Find them,
Whoever's responsible
and see that they're
brought to justice.
I will do my best, Mr. Neelix.
( suspenseful theme playing )
( door closes )
Thanks for seeing me.
I heard what happened.
Do you have any idea
what caused
this latest attack?
I just finished interviewing
the old woman.
And?
She attacked the victim
in response to the same
violent thought
the previous beating.
that motivated
B'Elanna's thought?
But both she and Frane
are in custody.
How could the thought
have been passed to anyone else?
I don't know.
That's why I'm here.
I need your help.
Then you shall have it.
Thank you.
why that thought
I don't know
contaminating people,
is still
to put a stop to it.
but I have got
with a murder before,
I've never dealt
but you've had experience
investigations?
with homicide
I have.
I thought I would
start by tracing
the old woman's whereabouts
for the past few days
to see where she might have
encountered the thought.
A wise choice.
In the meantime,
I would like
to interview B'Elanna
more extensively.
Perhaps a fresh
perspective
you hadn't considered.
might uncover facts
I'll arrange it immediately.
( suspenseful theme playing )
I'm not sure I like
the idea of a mind-meld
any better
than an engramatic purge.
a limited meld.
It will be
I will focus exclusively
on your memories
surrounding the crime.
of the events
It poses no danger.
Are you ready?
Your mind to my mind.
to my thoughts.
Your thoughts
Recall your encounter
with Mr. Frane.
He bumped into you.
What happened next?
I guess that's when
I had the thought
B'ELANNA:
about hitting him.
And after that?
TUVOK:
and asked if I was hurt.
Guill came over
B'ELANNA:
thinking at that moment?
And what were you
TUVOK:
Why?
I'm sensing something
more to the encounter
than what you've told me.
It may be important.
Try to recall.
Well, he was just holding me
by the shoulders.
You said he'd been
reading your mind
TUVOK:
during the negotiation.
Was he still doing it?
I don't know.
B'ELANNA:
negative feelings about him.
You experienced
( suspenseful theme playing )
He gave me the creeps.
In what sense?
He, uh, wanted something.
Something terrible.
What the hell?
( gasps )
Why didn't
I remember that before?
You may be recalling
an unconscious thought
you had at the time
or an intuition.
Perhaps I should
ask Mr. Guill.
Mr. Guill.
I'm Commander Tuvok,
Voyager's Chief of Security.
when I'm late for supper.
My children get upset
to do business,
If you're here
we could make an appointment
for tomorrow.
I'm here to talk to you
about the attack.
Why me?
My crewmate, Lieutenant Torres
has been charged
with the crime.
you're acquainted with her.
I believe
Lieutenant Torres, yes.
She was arrested?
The Chief Examiner believes
it was her violent thought,
which prompted
the beating.
a pleasant young woman.
She seemed like such
Apparently, she was
almost knocked over
business with you.
while doing
Do you recall that?
Yes.
A man accidentally
ran into her and...
You're not like the others
from your ship, are you?
You're a telepath.
That is correct.
Why are you so curious
about what happened?
investigation of the crime.
I am conducting my own
I see.
For a moment, I thought you had
another reason for asking.
with violent thoughts as well.
You...struggle
Terrible images,
but they're hidden
deep within your mind.
I am in control
of those images.
All members of the Vulcan race
learn to inhibit emotions.
If my unconscious thoughts
are disturbing you,
I will attempt to suppress
them further.
No, please.
Don't trouble yourself.
I can't see them clearly enough
to be affected.
I sense that you are fascinated
with my unconscious thoughts.
That you would like to see
more of them if you could.
No.
I was just thinking
maybe I could help you.
Help me?
In learning how to deal
with these...
dark impulses.
No, thank you.
I have sufficient means
of controlling them.
I'm sure you do.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Any other questions?
No.
Then, if you'll excuse me,
I really can't be late
for the table.
Do you have the money?
3,000 renns.
I have something
exciting for you tonight.
following us?
Why are you
I was thinking
about what you said...
in my unconscious thoughts.
your interest
Perhaps we could
help each other.
How would we do that?
By telepathically exchanging
violent images.
That is what
you want, isn't it?
To see what's buried
in my unconscious?
Who is he?
Quiet.
Why should I trust you?
we are very much alike.
Because you know
Perhaps I was mistaken.
Wait.
be of use to each other.
Maybe we can
to get rid of this.
But you'll have
( combadge clatters
to ground )
Come back later,
Malin.
I'll have thoughts to share
If I'm right,
than anything you can imagine.
that are darker
( suspenseful theme swells )
( suspenseful theme playing )
( voices screaming )
( barking )
( both gasping )
Well?
Fascinating.
Now...
show me.
moments to recover.
I'll need a few
I'm surprised
you're so easily tired.
Your telepathic abilities
are strong.
I exercise those skills.
It is not often that
There must be violent thoughts
to be had from your shipmates,
whether they want
to share them or not.
After all, they
couldn't stop a telepath
from probing their minds,
could they?
Is that how you acquire
your merchandise?
Sometimes I buy.
Sometimes I find
a person like you
who's willing to share,
and, yes, when the opportunity
presents itself,
I take what I need.
Which is what you did
to Lieutenant Torres.
Frane took her thought,
not me.
So, you know Mr. Frane.
Only casually.
to be in business with him?
Well enough
Why do you ask?
I am interested in the thought
he acquired from B'Elanna.
have always fascinated me,
Her violent tendencies
yet I've never succeeded
in probing her mind.
If you could help me purchase
that thought...
It's impossible.
Frane's already
had it purged.
Odd.
you possessed it.
I was certain
Me?
Didn't you extract the thought
from B'Elanna as well,
collided with Frane?
just after she
What?
I reevaluated B'Elanna's
memories of the incident.
you probed her mind.
She remembers that
She remembers
incorrectly.
Perhaps...
or perhaps you did
extract that image,
which would explain
is still in circulation.
why that same thought
a murder this morning.
Why it prompted
Enough!
It's time you gave me
what you promised.
sharing thoughts with tonight
The only person you'll be
is the Chief Examiner.
Where are you going?
Stand aside.
me into custody.
Tuvok's taking
No!
( all grunting )
( dramatic theme calming )
( computer beeping negative )
Still no sign of him.
Try a multiphasic bio-scan.
We're being hailed, Captain.
It's Nimira.
On screen.
had any luck locating Tuvok?
Chief Examiner, have you
I'm afraid not.
I'd like to send a search party.
I can't allow that.
Why not?
violations of our laws.
We can't risk further
That's ridiculous.
I really don't think
Tom.
a serious threat.
we pose
There's nothing more
to discuss.
Lieutenant Torres
will be purged
then returned to you.
Oh. Captain, you can't
let them do that.
The decision's been made.
I'm sorry.
( computer beeps )
( sighs )
( suspenseful theme playing )
( grunting and gasping )
Let go of me!
B'Elanna, please.
Try to relax.
Oh, you have got
to be kidding!
No. Wait!
Sedate her.
( gasping )
Proceed.
You won't escape punishment
for your crimes.
Quiet!
( panting )
You are responsible
for a death.
I never meant
that to happen.
The old woman begged me for
that thought. I had to help her.
Here.
( grunts )
You are justifying murder.
Enough.
Malin, hold him still.
Now...
show me.
( suspenseful theme playing )
( all screaming )
( roaring )
You're holding back.
I haven't seen
the best of it yet, have I?
No.
Then show me.
( gasps )
will you let me go?
If I show you,
Yes.
Come closer.
( both grunting )
Don't be alarmed.
allow you to see
This will
the deepest recesses
of my mind.
My mind...to your mind
and my thoughts...
to your thoughts.
Yes.
Good.
( suspenseful theme playing )
This is the side of you
I wanted to know.
( gasping )
( grunting )
What's...happening?
in a Vulcan mind-meld.
We are locked
the truth of violence.
You don't understand
( groans )
Its darkness...
its power!
( whimpering )
( groaning )
( sputtering )
Please. Stop.
Increase the electrochemical
displacement,
with the synaptic potentials.
but be very careful
and we could permanently damage
One miscalculation
her cerebral cortex.
MARI ( on communicator ):
to Chief Examiner Nimira.
Communications Center
Nimira.
Captain Janeway insists
on speaking with you.
She says it's extremely urgent.
What is it, Captain?
Relay her signal.
JANEWAY ( on communicator ):
It's imperative that
you discontinue
Lieutenant Torres' engramatic
extraction immediately.
has found new evidence,
Commander Tuvok
which proves her innocence.
( majestic theme playing )
( door opens )
I hope this interruption
is justified.
Suspending an engramatic purge
once it's begun
is highly irregular.
any more time. Commander.
Then let's not waste
I have discovered
that Guill and Frane
are responsible
in the marketplace,
for the beating
for Talli's murder.
and consequently,
Guill, the merchant?
That is correct.
What possible involvement
could he have?
on the violent thought.
It was Frane who acted
That is not in dispute.
Lieutenant Torres' thought
However,
was not transferred
accidentally.
I don't understand.
When Guill first met
Lieutenant Torres,
he sensed strong, violent
tendencies within her,
for mental imagery
a potential
which interested him.
In order to exploit
that potential,
he conspired with Frane
to provoke B'Elanna.
They wanted to trigger
a violent thought,
so they could telepathically
draw it from her mind.
I can't believe that.
It is precisely
what happened.
they underestimated
Unfortunately,
the intensity of the thought.
It was more powerful
them had ever experienced.
than anything either of
Frane lost control
As a result,
and attacked
the victim.
Why would peaceful men
like Guill and Frane
want to subject themselves
to such hostile images?
My investigation has uncovered
a rather disturbing side
of Mari society.
A black market,
if you will,
of your citizens
in which many
trade in illicit
mental imagery.
Guill is a very prominent figure
in this underground,
or was, until I brought him
into custody.
Why would any of my people
in that kind of behavior?
want to indulge
Apparently, outlawing
violent thought
hasn't made it go away.
All you've done
is force people
in back alleys.
to share it
a somewhat more...
It seems you have
TUVOK:
serious problem than the random
thoughts of a single alien.
Even if I believed you,
I'm not sure anyone else would.
Then I suggest you interrogate
Guill yourselves.
His engramatic record
will undoubtedly confirm
what I've told you.
Where is he now?
We have him confined.
In our brig.
( soft theme playing )
Captain's Log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
taken custody of Mr. Guill.
Chief Examiner Nimira has
will lead to reforms
Whether his arrest
in the Mari justice system
is anyone's guess.
is treating Lieutenant Torres
In the meantime, the doctor
and Commander Tuvok.
Fortunately, the Mari
didn't get very far
with the procedure.
You can return to duty,
Lieutenant,
though perhaps with one
or two fewer violent engrams
in that fiery head
of yours.
It's all right, Doc.
There are plenty more
where those came from.
Duly warned.
Thanks for getting me
out of there.
pursuing the truth.
I was merely
Ah. So if
I was responsible
for passing that thought,
you would have let them
lobotomize me?
It is incumbent upon us
to respect the laws
of the societies
we visit.
Ah. So...
you still a fan
of the Mari legal system?
My views have been
somewhat modified.
Then you're not
going to lecture me
about losing my temper?
investigating this case
If you must know,
has given me a new respect
for your inner struggle.
Really?
Burdened as you are
by your primitive
Klingon psyche,
you are able to keep
it is a wonder
your violent thoughts
under control
as much as you do.
Thanks...I think.
You're welcome.
various Vulcan techniques
Of course, there are
increase your self-control.
which could help you
You don't say.
( soft theme playing )
( computer beeping )
( gasps )
I must speak with you.
Come in.
Have a seat.
Of course.
I prefer to stand.
I keep forgetting.
You once encouraged me
to express my opinions
if I had something
relevant to say.
Go right ahead.
You wish to return this vessel
to the Alpha Quadrant,
and yet you are following
Starfleet protocol
regarding first contact.
The two objectives
are incompatible.
How so?
Your philosophy of exploration
to constant risk.
exposes Voyager
If you maintain
a direct course,
to Earth and avoid
all extraneous contact
with alien species,
your chances of survival.
it will increase
Well, that would make
a dull ride home.
Captain?
We seek out new races
because we want to,
following protocols.
not because we're
We have an insatiable curiosity
about the universe.
Your Chief Engineer and Security
Officer were nearly lost today.
That is unacceptable.
but not to me or my crew.
To you, maybe,
Our experience with the Mari
gave us an insight
we've never encountered.
into a culture
But that is irrelevant.
It's how we gain knowledge.
No.
Then we are in disagreement.
Good. I dread the day
when everyone on this ship
agrees with me.
I thank you for your opinion,
is not going to change.
but our mission
( soft theme playing )
Dismissed.
( majestic theme playing )